Doc plugins (#524)
STORM-IRIT/Radium-Engine: doc/use/plugin.md

\page useplugin Plugin Development
[TOC]
# How to write your own plugin

> Custom plugins can be easily add to Radium ecosystem.

Author: fixed.

In addition to the Radium and Ra::Plugins::RadiumPluginInterface API,
Radium provides a set of tools simplifying the deployment of plugins, which among
other things take care of the portability and relocatability of the
binaries.

To use these tools, you need to follow theses instructions to configure, conmpile and use your plugin.

> ### Setting a CMakeLists.txt to compile and install a plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting a CMakeLists.txt for a Radium plugin
```

`configure_radium_plugin_install( NAME ${PROJECT_NAME} )` that aims at configuring the plugin installation along with 
its associated resources. 

The command `configure_radium_plugin_install`takes several parameters.
The full usage of this command is :

```cmake
configure_radium_plugin_install( 
    NAME nameOfTheTargetOtInstall      # mandatory
    RESOURCES ListOfResourcesDirectory # optional
    INSTALL_IN_RADIUM_BUNDLE           # optional
     )
```

-   `NAME nameOfTheTargetOtInstall`: this parameter, mandatory, will configure how to install the target
    `nameOfTheTargetOtInstall`. This target must correspond to a configured plugin target such the one obtained by
    `target_link_libraries(nameOfTheTargetOtInstall PUBLIC Radium::Core Radium::Engine Radium::PluginBase ${Qt5_LIBRARIES} )`

-   `RESOURCES ListOfResourcesDirectory` : this parameter, optional, will install several resources alongside the plugin 
    so that the Radium resource locator system will be able to find these resources. 
       Resources could be shader source files, images and data files or whatever document is needed for the plugin to be 

>        operational.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

-   `INSTALL_IN_RADIUM_BUNDLE` : this parameter, optional, will install the plugin and its associated resources directly 
    into the Radium Bundle installation directory. This will allow to have Plugins relocatable at the same time than 

>     the Radium Bundle. If this parameter is given, it will superseed to install location configuration that uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the Radium Bundle. If this parameter is given, it replace the install location configuration that uses
```

>      the cmake standard `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     the cmake standard  option `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=whereToInstallThings`
```

Note that, as it is the case for applications, Plugins does not need to be installed to be used by any applications. 
Plugins could be loaded and used from their build-trees.

> ### Configure the plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring the plugin
```

Author: I think configure is fine

> Configuring the plugin, and mainly the installation of the plugin, depends on several use cases that might evolve 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring the plugin for compilation and install depends on several use cases that might evolve 
```

> along the life-time of plugin development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during the plugin development.
```

> There are three main uses cases we can identify in the life-time of a Plugin development :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three main uses cases we can identify :
```

> 1.  You are developing/testing your plugin. There is no need to install the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  You are developing/testing your plugin. There is no need to install the plugin and no install option is needed when configuring using cmake.
```

    Any plugin compatible application might find and use it from its build tree (e.g `build-release/Plugins`). 

>     For this, you have to configure once your application by adding the build path of the plugin (`build-dir/Plugins`) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For this, you have to configure once your application by adding the build path of the plugin
```

    to the plugin search path of the application. Each time you will launch this application, it will search in all its 
    registered search paths for compatible plugins.
    The advantage of not installing plugins while developping/testing is a fast startup of the application 

>     and efficient update of the Plugin resources as Resources directories are linked (symbolic links on systems that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and efficient update of the Plugin resources as Resources directories are _linked_ (symbolic links on systems that 
```

    support them) into the build tree.

> 2.  You have developed several plugins, and will only occasionally recompile them, for your own usage and you want your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  You have finished to develop the plugin, and will only occasionally recompile it for maintenance. If you developed several plugins, for your own usage, and you want your 
```

>     plugin compatible applications to find and load them quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    plugin compatible applications to find and load them quickly,
```

>     In this case, you might install your plugin in one unique location and tell the applications to load plugins from 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     you might install your plugins in one unique location and tell the applications to load plugins from 
```

>     there. To do so, use the option `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=thePathToTheInstalledPlugins` and do a `make install`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    there. To do so, use the cmake configuration option `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=thePathToTheInstalledPlugins` and do a `make install`
```

    You can then configure your applications so that they will search plugins from the `thePathToTheInstalledPlugins` directory.
    Each time the application will start, all the plugins from this `thePathToTheInstalledPlugins` will be 
    loaded, even those installed here after the configuration of the plugin location in the application.

3.  You want to distribute plugins binaries alongside the Radium bundle.
    In this case, you have to configure the plugin with the`INSTALL_IN_RADIUM_BUNDLE`option and do a `make install` to
    install the plugins in the Radium Bundle. Note that this requires write access to the Radium Bundle.

> The use case 1 above is efficient when you develop/test plugins with resources. The use case 2 is efficient when you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> have mature plugins you want to stack together. The use case 3 is fine when you want to distribute radium as binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Once you have choosen the adequate use case, you can configure the plugin using cmake.

As we disable "in source" build in the CMakeLists.txt example above, we need to create a build directory:

```Shell
mkdir build-release && cd build-release
```

With Radium-Engine installed in the directory `pathToRadiumInstallation`,
configure and compile the project with :

```Shell
cmake ../ -DRadium_DIR=pathToRadiumInstallation/lib/cmake/Radium
cmake --build .
```

If you just want to use the plugin directly from its build-tree, the resulting dynamic library will be found in the 
`build-release/Plugins/lib` directory and the associated resources will be linked (or copied on systems that do not 
support symbolic links) in the directory `build-release/Plugins/Resources`. In this case, note that the plugin from the 
buildtree could generally not be moved as it is linked to used libraries using relative paths.

> If you install the plugin, by default, it will be installed in a directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you install the plugin, execute the command `cmake --install`
```

> called `installed-<Compiler_id>` in the plugin buildtree. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that will install the plugin according to your configuration choice as described above (default installation destination, user defined installation directory or Radium Bundle installation).
```

> This installed plugin is then relocatable only on the system where the plugin was built.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can change this default behavior by setting `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to any directory, e.g `pathToInstallPlugins`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The dynamic library will then be copied into  `pathToInstallPlugins/lib` and the Resources will be copied into 

> `pathToInstallPlugins/Resources`. Later, you can move `pathToInstallPlugins` wherever you need and the plugin will still 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`pathToInstallPlugins/Resources`. 
```

> be functional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To install the plugin in `pathToRadiumInstallation/Plugins/lib/`, which is relocatable alongside the Radium bundle and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> automatically loaded by any plugin compatible applications (such as `main-app`), pass the parameter 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> `INSTALL_IN_RADIUM_BUNDLE` to the `configure_radium_plugin_install` of each plugin's `CMakeLists.txt`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
